# 01 - Network Config Files and Commands

## Important Network Configuration Files in Linux

### 1. /etc/hosts

This file is used to resolve hostnames on small networks with no DNS server. It contains a mapping of an IP address to the corresponding host name in each line. Additionally, it specifies the IP address of the loopback device (`127.0.0.1` mapped to `localhost`).

A typical hosts file looks like:

```
127.0.0.1   localhost
127.0.1.1   anil-300E4Z-300E5Z-300E7Z
```

### 2. /etc/resolv.conf

This configuration file contains the IP addresses of DNS servers and the search domain.

A sample file:

```
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN

nameserver 127.0.1.1
```

### 3. /etc/sysconfig/network

This configuration file specifies routing and host information for all network interfaces. It contains directives that are globally specific. For example, if `NETWORKING=yes`, then `/etc/init.d/network` activates network devices.

### 4. /etc/nsswitch.conf

This file includes database search entries. The directive specifies which database is to be searched first.

## Important Linux Networking Commands

### 1. ifconfig

This command gives the configuration of all interfaces in the system. It can be run with an interface name to get the details of that interface.

```
ifconfig wlan0
```

This gives the IP address, subnet mask, and broadcast address of the wireless LAN adapter, as well as information about its support for multicasting.

### 2. netstat

This command provides network status information.

```
netstat -i
```

As shown above, the command with `-i` flag provides information on the interfaces. `lo` stands for the loopback interface.

### 3. ping

This is the most commonly used command for checking connectivity.

```
ping www.google.com
```

A healthy connection is determined by a steady stream of replies with consistent times. Packet loss is shown by discontinuity of sequence numbers. Large-scale packet loss indicates a problem along the path.
